Dear students, welcome to the problem solving sessions on one-dimensional heat equation. Today we are going to solve problem on type two. What is type two? If the steady state conditions and zero boundary conditions are given. Let us go into the problem. In our previous problem, they have directly given u t is equal to alpha squared u double x and they give the two boundary conditions and one initial condition. So they give this three data and they tell us to find the steady state temperature function. But now in today's session, we are going to see if the problem is with steady state condition and zero boundary conditions. In steady state condition, my third initial condition u of x comma zero will not be given directly. We have to find from the question. It will be a theoretical question. We have to identify that the question is zero boundary or non-zero boundary with steady state conditions. Let us read the question first. A rod of 30 centimeter length. So my l is equal to 30. This is the first information. Now, it is kept at 20 degrees Celsius, 80 degrees Celsius respectively until steady state condition prevails. So that means this is a steady state problem. Then the temperature at each end is suddenly reduced to zero degrees Celsius. So from 20 degrees Celsius one end and 80 degrees Celsius other end, it is reduced to zero degree Celsius. So that means the steady state is reduced to zero boundary condition. Therefore, this is a problem on steady state condition and zero boundary condition. Now we have to find the u of x comma t taking x equal to zero at the point A. As I said some ins here, the length of the rod is given as 30 centimeter. Never solve the problem with number 30 because we are all habituated with solving either cos n x or cos n x by l, sin NX or sin n pi x by l. So, assume that l equal to 30 and solve the problem for l. At the end of the problem, substitute the value 30. It will be more convenient and more safer for you to do the problem in a correct way. Okay, let us go into the problem. Step one. Step one is my Step one is my diagram. One end is A, the other end is B. According to the problem, the first end is given as x equal to zero. The other end is given as 30. Length is equal to 30 cm. Now, the temperature function can be written as u of x comma t. So, the basic assumptions are simple. It is thermally insulated at the sides. Now, the temperature given at one end is 20° C and the other end is 80° C. After that, the temperature is suddenly reduced to 0° C. Here also, it is reduced to 0° C. So, now my t1 is going to be 20° C and t2 is going to be 80° C. Now, since the temperature is reduced to 0° C, we would say u of 0 comma t is zero. u of 30, I am going to assume this 30 as l. So, l comma t equal to zero. So, my diagram gets over. This is my step one. Now, in steady state problem, the first two boundary conditions we can identify from the figure. And the third boundary condition would not be given. You have to find by yourself using the words steady state condition. Now, we know at steady state u is equal to ax plus b. And I gave the direct formula how to find this u. u is equal to t2 minus t1 by l into x plus t1. From the figure, it is very clear that my t2 is 80, t1 is 20, L is 30. So, my U is going to be 80 minus 20 by 30, that is 2X plus T1 is 20. So, this is my third initial condition. So, now we found all the three conditions from the given question. Now, let us proceed. You can see the typed version. Step two, as usual, step two, UT is equal to alpha squared U double X, where alpha squared is equal to kappa divided by rho c, that is thermal conductivity divided by density into specific heat. Step three, the most suitable solution is known to us A cos lambda X plus B sin lambda X E power minus alpha squared lambda squared T. The boundary conditions and initial conditions we get from the figure. The first two boundary conditions are U of 0 {comma} T equal to 0, U of L {comma} T equal to 0. As I said, I'm taking 30 cm as L. Only to find the third condition, I'm using L equal to 30 in step one. See here, here alone I'm substituting L equal to 30. But, in the whole problem, I'm going to take this 30 cm as L except this place. Therefore, my second boundary condition is U of L {comma} T equal to 0, which make me very sophisticated to solve the problem. Then, the initial condition is U of X {comma} 0 2X plus 20, where X lies between 0 to L. Now, as usual, one in one, if I put U of 0 {comma} T equal to 0 in one, we will be getting 0 is equal to A E power minus lambda squared alpha squared T. Since this is not equal to 0, because if this is 0, my equation one will become 0. That is not possible. Therefore, A equal to 0. Substitute A equal to 0 in one, we'll be getting a new equation two. Now, substitute u of l {comma} t equal to zero in equation two. We will be getting zero is equal to b into sine lambda l into e power minus lambda squared alpha squared t. And it is very clear that this term cannot be zero, and b also cannot be zero. Why? Already we prove a equal to zero. Suppose if you take b is also zero, then the equation will become zero plus zero. Zero into anything, you'll be getting zero. So, there is no chance. So, b is not equal to zero. Therefore, the only choice is sine lambda l is equal to zero. And we know that if sine lambda l is equal to zero, then sine n pi is also equal to zero. Now, comparing sine lambda l equal to zero and sine n pi equal to zero, when n belong to integer, we'll be getting sine lambda l is equal to sine n pi. When sine sine get cancelled, we will have lambda l equal to n pi. And finally, lambda equal to n pi by l. Now, substituting this lambda equal to n pi by l in two, we'll be getting like this. As I said earlier, in heat equation, we have three boundary condition. So, my equation three is always most general solution. In my wave equation, I have four boundary condition, and equation four should be my most general solution. So, I'm taking b is equal to bn. And my most general solution is depicted in the image. Take it as equation three. Now, apply the third boundary condition u of x {comma} zero, that is 2x plus 20 in three. So, we take in general u of X {comma} zero is f of X. When we apply, we'll be getting like this. Since e power zero is one, when I put this value, my t equal to zero, I'll be getting this equation. And U of X {comma} zero is my f of X. Now, it looks like my half range Fourier sine series. So, we'll take the formula for half range Fourier sine series. Now, we have to find Bn, where Bn is equal to two by L integral zero to L. My f of X is 2x + 20 sine n pi x by L dx. And what is the good thing in steady state conditions and zero boundary condition problem, my f of X is always going to be some ax + b. So, the power of X is one, the integration is very simple for Bn. That is the advantage. Now, let us integrate this and substituting in equation three will give the final solution. We are going to integrate using Bernoulli's formula, UV minus U dash V1 plus U double dash V2, etc. Now, I'll take U as 2x + 20, my diminishing function. U dash is two, U double dash is zero. DV is equal to sine n pi x by L dx. And integrating this, we'll be getting minus cos n pi x by L divided by n pi by L. And V1 is going to be minus sine n pi x by L divided by n pi by L whole square. Now, mapping UV and U dash V1, remaining all the terms will become zero. I can find the answer for Bn. Therefore, my Bn is equal to two by L 2x + 20 minus cos n pi x by L divided by n pi by L minus two into minus sine n pi x by l divided by n pi by l whole square and my limits are zero to l. As usual, the sign term will become zero. Only cos term survives. So, bn is equal to I'll take this minus outside minus two by l and the denominator to the numerator l by n pi and we have two x plus 20 cos n pi x by l. My limit is zero comma l. Now, substituting the upper and lower limits will be having minus two by n pi. Upper limit is l. We'll be getting two l plus 20 cos n pi minus lower limit is zero. So, two x will become zero. 20 into cos zero. Therefore, bn is equal to minus two by n pi. We know that cos n pi is minus one whole power n. Two l plus 20 minus 20. Now, you see students, put l equal to 30 here. If you start doing the problem with 30, lot of confusions will come in the integration and substituting the number. So, always better go with l. At the end of the problem, substitute the l value. Now, bn is going to be minus two by n pi. When I put l equal to 30, I'll be getting 80 minus one whole power n minus 20. Therefore, multiplying the minus inside will be having two by n pi 20 minus 80 minus one whole power n. Now, taking 20 outside will be getting two into 20 divided by n pi one minus four times minus one whole power n. Therefore, my bn is going to be 40 by n pi into one minus four times minus one whole power n. So, this is the simplest way, guys. Take the given data as l, solve it, and at the end, substitute it to get the BN value. Now, finally, substitute BN in my most general solution to get the answer. U of X {comma} T is equal to summation N equal to 1 to infinity BN sin N pi X by L E power minus N squared pi squared alpha squared T by L squared. Now, we know that L value is 30. So, L squared is going to be 900. Substitute the final value here. So, finally, I can write my answer as U of X {comma} T. I'll take this 40 by pi outside because it is a constant. N equal to 1 to infinity, I'll be having 1 minus 1 whole power N divided by N sin N pi X. L is 30. I'm substituting this. And E power minus N squared pi squared alpha squared T divided by L squared is 900. This is my final solution. So, this is the easiest way to solve this type 2 problems, students. Thanks for watching. Subscribe our channel. Share to your friends. Any doubts, you post in the comment box. We are here to help you. See you in the next video. Bye-bye.