Dear students, welcome to the problem solving session on one-dimensional heat equation. In today's session, we are going to deal with type three. Those who don't watch the basic videos on 1D equation, go to the playlist and learn the basics and then watch type one that is problems with zero boundary values. And next watch the type two that is steady state conditions and zero boundary conditions. In today's session, we are going to deal with type three that is steady state condition and nonzero boundary condition. Let us go into the problem. The two ends of the rod with 30 cm length are kept at 20°C and 80°C on two sides until it attain steady states. The temperature at the end B is suddenly reduced to 60 and the temperature at the end A is suddenly increased to 40°C from 20°. Now find the temperature distribution of the rod after time t. So here we can see the four key states of the rod. Initial state like before time t equal to0 when the content is given to us at the end a it is fixed as 20°C. At the B end it is fixed as 80° C. So the temperature distribution at initial time is U of X comma 0. Now let us have the visualization of this problem. So two ends are considered to be A and B. The length is 30 cm and the left end is X=0. The right end is X= 30. At A the temperature is maintained as 20°C and B the temperature maintained as 80°C. Next, suddenly there is a change at time t equal to0. So they are increasing the temperature one side and decreasing the temperature to the other side. At the end A the temperature is increased from 20°C to 40. And at the end B the temperature is reduced to 60°C from 80. So now the system is out of equilibrium because initially it was in steady state. Now we are increasing and decreasing the heat on two different sides. So this is the beginning of transition process. Now let us visualize this. So now we have two ends A and B. One end is X=0 and the other is X= to 30. All these things are same. Now the temperature is raised to 40 from 20 on A and other side it is reduced to 60 from 80 on B. Since the temperature is raised on one side and reduced on the other side, the transition process begins. Now it is not in a steady state. When t greater than zero, the temperature on every point is changing with time. So now the heat is started to redistributed on the rod. After some time t it will reach the final steady state. There will be a new equilibrium is established. Now let us say this final steady state temperature as Us of Y. Hope you understand. Now let us go into the steps. First we have to calculate the initial steady state. So we see the diagram. Initially the temperature is 20° on end A and 80° on end B. The steady state equation is TS2 minus T1 divided by L into X + T1. So it is nothing but 80 - 20 / l is 30 into x + 20. Simplifying this we get u is 2x + 20. This is initial steady state. So I'm taking this as u of x0 is equal to 2x + 20. This u of x0 it is going to be my f ofx. Next let us check the final steady state because this is non zero steady state problem. The temperature is not moved to zero. The temperature is raised one side and then reduced other side. So let us find the final steady state. The new temperature is 40 and 60 on the sides A and B. Now let us find U. 60 - 40 divided by 30 into X + 40. Simplifying this we will get 2x 3x + 40. So this u is the final steady state. So let us take this as u. So u of x is equal to 2x 3 + 40. Now step two as usual write the one-dimensional equation that is ut is equal to alpha square ux and alpha squared is capa divided by row c. Here we have two steady states. The first one is initial steady state and the next is final steady state. So the solution may be written as u of x comma t is equal to final steady state plus the transient state. And now the most suitable solution is going to be a cos lambda x + b sin lambda x into e power minus lambda square alpha² t. This is for ut of x t. And for the final state just now we found that is 2x3 + 40. So this is my most suitable solution. In the previous problem the final state is moved to 0°C. So this is simply zero. So that is the difference between type two and type three. Now let us take this as equation one. Next we are going to write the boundary and initial conditions. So after the initial steady state at the end of the rod A the temperature is 40° C and at the B the temperature is 60° C. Therefore the first boundary condition U of 0 comma T is going to be 40 and the second boundary condition U of L comma T at the other end is going to be 60° C for both T greater than or equal to zero. Next initial condition u of x comma 0. We just found 2x + 20 for all x lies between 0 to l. Here l = 30. Both boundary and initial conditions are ready. Now we have to solve the problem. So let us take the equation one. Apply one in one. The first boundary condition is u of 0a t = 40°. Put x =0 in equation one. We get this. The left hand side is 40°C and the right hand side we can see 0 + 40 + a cos 0 0 + b sin 0. We know cos 0 is 1 and sin 0 is 0. So a into e power minus lambda square alpha square t. Now we can cancel this 40 on both sides and then we get a into e power minus lambda square alpha square t equal to zero. Since e power minus lambda square alpha square t cannot be equal to zero. If this is zero then my solution will become zero. Therefore the only chance is a = z. So we found a equal to zero. Now we have to substitute this in one so that we can get the b term alone. So u of x t is equal to 2x 3 + 40 + b sin lambda x into e power minus lambda square alpha square t. Let us take this as equation two. Now we have to apply 2 in 2. The second boundary condition is u of l t is equal to 60. For my convenience I am taking this as l. After solving the problem, I will substitute L= 30 to avoid the mistakes in calculations. Now applying the boundary conditions, the left hand side is 60. On the right hand side, the length of the rod is 30. So 2 into 30 divided by 3 + 40 + B into sin lambda L E power minus lambda square alpha² T. So we get 60 is equal to 20 + 40 + b sin lambda l e power minus lambda square alpha square t. So this 60 will cancel with the right hand side and we get 0 = b into sin lambda l into e power minus lambda square alpha square t. Now the same thing already in the previous case we said e power minus lambda square alpha square cannot be zero. If this is zero then my u of x comma t will become zero. On the other hand we already made a equal to zero. If you make b also zero then if both are zero then my solution will become zero. So b cannot be zero. The only thing is sin lambdal is zero. And we know that sin n pi =0 in general for any positive integers. Therefore, lambda l is equal to n pi and lambda is equal to n pi by l. This is what we found from the second boundary condition. Now substitute lambda into. So we get like this. Now let us take capital b = bn. Before applying the condition three, we have to write the most general solution. The most general solution I can write this as 2x 3 + 40 plus summation n = 1 to infinity bn sin n pix by l e power - n² i² alpha² tx l². So in some books the author will take this as capital bn that is b as capital bn and when they solve the problem they will assume this bn is equal to small bn. So both are correct. I'm directly taking this as small bn. This is my most general solution. Now let us apply 3 in 3. Now applying the initial condition u of x0 is equal to f ofx that is 2x + 20 in 3. Since t =0 then e power -0 will become 1. So this whole term will become 1 and then we get the remaining terms. Now we have to apply the f of x value and then we have to simplify the left hand side and the right hand side. So we get 2x - 2x 3 + 20 - 40 is equal to summation n = 1 to infinity bn sin n pix by l that is nothing but 4x 3 - 20. It looks like a new f of x. So this is nothing but half range 4year sin series. So we have to find bn. Here f of x is given and the limits are 0 to l. So let us write the formula. bn is 2 by l integral 0 to l f ofx sin n pix by l dx. Here f of x is 4x 3 - 20. Now we have to apply bernnal formula. Hope you remember u v - u- v1 plus u ddash v2 etc. Here we have x term the power is 1. So we are going to get only two terms. So u is 4xx 3 - 20. Uash is 4x3 and u ddash is zero. On the other side dv is sin n pix by l dx. When we integrate we get v = - cos n px by l and the constant n by l in the denominator. V_sub_1 again differentiating cost we get - sin N pix by L in the denominator we get N P by L² now we have to substitute in the Bernali's formula uv U u-v1 remaining terms are zero now we can see this and it is very easy to see whenever we see a sine function sin 0 is going to be zero when you substitute l it will become sin n pi since all n's are positive integer this term will become zero. So this is zero. We have to deal only the first term. So we can rewrite this as 2 by L. And I can take this minus outside. So - 2x L into L by N. Now if you apply the upper limit, you'll be getting 4 L by 3 - 20 cos ni minus when you substitute the lower limit, it will become 0 - 20 into cos 0. So cos 0 is going to be 1. Now simplifying this we get - 2 by n 4 lx 3 - 20 cos n pi is -1 power n minus into minus plus. So we get 20. Now it's time to substitute the l value because we have completed the problem. If you substituting l = 30 we get - 2 by n 40 - 20 into -1 all power n + 20. Now I can take the 20 outside. So my bn is going to be -2 by n pi into 20 1 + -1 all power n. So this is my bn. So if you are taking the notation capital bn. Now we have to map the small bn to capital bn. Otherwise you can directly substitute the most general solution is there. We have to substitute the bn value that is -40 by n pi 1 + -1 all power n. This is my final solution. Here we have to substitute l = 30. So l² is going to be 900. Hope you understand students. Thanks for watching. Hope you found this video helpful. Subscribe to our channel and share to your friends. See you in the next video. Bye-bye.