Dear students, welcome to an exciting problem solving session on zero initial velocity problems. In the previous video, we have dealing with the function f ofx. It might be a trigonometric like v sin cq pix by l or simply v sin pix by l etc. On the other hand, it is kx into l - x or simply x or x² etc. In today's session, we are going to see the problem which does not give any information about f ofx. Let us go into the problem. A tightly stretched string whose length is l. So one side is x=0. The other side is x= l. Now we are lifting the string to an height h from the midpoint. So that means we are pulling out the string like this. So it is very clear. Now I am holding the string at this point. So there is no initial velocity there is an initial displacement. So this problem is a zero initial velocity problem. But the problem is they don't give f of x. But some information is given about the f of x in terms of theoretical content. So let us solve the problem. As usual our step one is diagram. Now let us consider the string. Mark the two ends as a and c. Now it is lifted to an height h and mark this point as b. So the height is h. Now let us write the coordinates 0 l comma 0 because the length is l. Here at the midpoint it is going to be lx2 0. Since the midpoint of the string is lifted to a height h. So this coordinate is going to be lx2 h. Now let us keep the diagram as it is. We will use this at the end. Whenever we draw the diagram, we know the left hand side we have to write at 0 comma t any time t this end is fixed there is no displacement. Similarly at the other end for any time t it is going to be fixed there is no displacement. Next step 2 3 4 all are as usual let us write the wave equation yt is equal to a² yx where a² is t by m tension divided by mass per unit length and we take the most suitable solution from the previous videos you know all the basic. Now we have to write the initial and boundary conditions. Since the problem is zero initial velocity problem velocity is going to be zero and displacement is non zero. From the figure it is very clear we have two end points A and C. This is going to be my first boundary condition and at the point C we have the second boundary condition. At two end points there is no displacement. So let us write the boundary conditions for any time t greater than 0. Y of 0 t is 0 and y of l comma t equal to 0. An initial condition zero initial velocity problem. So there should not be any initial velocity and then finally there is a initial displacement. The only unknown function in this problem is f of x. We don't know what is f of x. It doesn't matter. Let us solve the general problem. At the end specifically we can find f of x. So let us take the equation one apply one in one. When you apply this cos 0 is 1, sin 0 is 1. And then it is very clear that C into cos lambda a t plus d into sin lambda a t cannot be zero. If this is zero the whole term is zero. So the only option here is a is zero. As usual I said apply and substitute. Substitute a equal to0 in 1. We get a new equation. Now take this as two and apply 2 into 2 and we can find something new. when I apply 2 into I'll get like this left hand side zero and already we just discussed c into cos lambda a t plus d into sin lambda 80 cannot be zero and b also can't be zero because already a is zero if b is zero then the whole term is going to be zero so the only chances sin lambda l is equal to z we know that sin n pi =0 for any positive integer therefore we can find lambda is equal = to n by l. Let us substitute this lambda in 2. When I substitute lambda in 2, we get a new equation 3. But our third boundary condition is yt of x0 =0. It is in terms of velocity. Now y is in terms of displacement. So let us differentiate this equation three. For my convenient, I'm keeping this as three star. So I'm partially differentiating three with respect to t. And we can get this because this term is constant cos n by l is minus sin n a by l and n pi a by l is constant. Similarly differentiation of sign is cos and we have to multiply the constant n pi a by l here. Now applying the initial condition that is yt of x0 =0 in three star we get 0 is equal to b into sin into d into n a by l. Now we have to check n pi a by l is constant. This can't be zero. In the previous step only we find lambda equal to n pi by l and we substitute here. So this is also can be zero. Since already a is zero. If you make b also zero then the whole problem will become zero. So the only chances we have d = 0. Therefore substitute d=0 in three. Three star is for my convenience. I have took the content and solved it. Now substitute d equal to0 in three. We get this. Now it's time to write the most general solution. I am taking this bn as capital b c. Now see up to this everything goes well. But the problem is I don't know what is my f ofx. Now apply y of x0 is equal to f of x in 4. Then we get f of x is summation n= 1 to infinity bn sin n pix by l. Now this looks like a half off range for year sign series. We know the formula for bn. To find bn we need f of x. Let us go back into the step one that is diagrams. Let us find f of x and then we can integrate this problem. From the figure it is very clear the string is lifted at an itch from the midpoint. So now we have two lines that is 0 to Lx2 and Lx2 to L. Now let us find 1 by 1. How to find the equation of this very basic question? Everybody will remember if I show the formula twopoint formula. Now I'm going to apply this formula to get the equation of AB and BC. So along the line AB we can see the points are 0A 0 to Lx2 H. Now let us write the points one by one and then substitute here. So y - 0 divided by y2 is h y1 is 0 is equal to x - 0 / x2 is lx 2 - 0. Now simplification is going to be very easy. y by h is equal to 2x by l. So y = 2 hx by l. Done. So now along the line AB we found we have to do the same thing for along the line BC. Along the BC we will take this as X1 Y1 and the next point as X2 Y2. Substituting in the point formula we get Y - H / - H is equal to X - LX2 / L - LX2. Denominator when we simplify we will get LX2. when we take to the numerator it will become 2x L into X - L by 2. Next we have to take this minus H to the other side and then we have to take this minus H to the right hand side that is Y = H. Now multiply this - 2 h by l inside we get 2 h by l into x - into - + 2 h by lx 2 that is y = h - 2 h by l x + h. Therefore y = 2 h - 2 h by l x. Now we can take 2 h by l in common. So in the first term we get l in the second term we get minus x. That is my y. So we found along the line AB and along the line BC we have to represent like this f of x is going to be 2 h by l x between 0 to lx2 and it is going to be 2 h by l - x between lx2 to l. Finally we found f of x and we write the off range for your sign series formula. And now we are going to find the answer that is bn. But f of x is splitted into two intervals. From this I can see 2 h by l is common in both integral. We can take this outside. We have two integrals that is 0 to lx2. The other one is lx2 to l dx. I'm going to take the first integral as I1 and the second integral as i2. Now we have to evaluate this i1 and i2. My capital i1 is integral 0 to lx2 x sin n pix by l. We did this many times from unit 2. So we are thorough. We have to use Bernali's formula. U is X, Udash is 1, U ddash is 0. When we take DV, we have sin N pix by L dx. V is - cos n px by l / n by l. Then v_sub_1 is - sin n pix by l / n by l all². Now we have to use Bernali's formula. We know the bernnalis formula is u v minus u - vub1 plus u dash v2 etc. Since the remaining terms are zero we'll be getting only one term. So the bernalis formula is integral uv is equal to u v minus u-v1 plus u ddash v2 etc. Now let us substitute this in the bernalis formula and taking the denominator to numerator which is easy for me to solve the problem further. Now it is easy to see when I apply the lower limit sin 0 is 0 cos 0 is 1 but we have x here when I put x equal to zero. Therefore in both the cases the lower limit value is zero. So only we have to find the upper limit. So when I substitute the upper limit we get lx2 into l by n pi I'm taking the constant then minus cos n by 2. Now minus into minus plus we have lx by n pi². When I substitute this lx2 we will get sin n by 2. Now simplifying this further we get - l² by 2 n p cos n by 2 + l² by n² sin n by 2. Next in the similar way we have to solve for i2. The only change is l - x instead of x and instead of the limit 0 to lx2 here we have lx2 to l. Now let us take the same equation. The only change is going to happen in the left hand side. So my u is going to be l - x. The differentiation of u is -1 and differentiation of u dash is zero. Now again we have to map this in the bernoli formula. Now rewriting this we can get the content. Now let us see when I substitute the upper limit and we get sin n pi for all positive integer sin n pi is zero. On the other hand we have l minus x. If you substitute x value as l then we get l minus l that is zero. So in both the cases upper limit is zero here. Therefore I will write my upper limit is zero. And I'm going to apply the lower limit. when I apply the lower limit L by2 L - LX2 is LX2 I'll take this minus out and we have already L by N then cos N by 2 the second term minus into minus into minus that is minus L² / N² sin N by 2 Therefore my capital I2 is L² by 2 N cos N by 2 + L² by N² square square sin n by2. Now let us add this I1 and I2. Let us recall I1. Substituting in the final answer. Bn is equal to 4 H by L² I1 + I2. Just adding this two we can cancel this cost term. Only sin term exist and we get 2 L² by N² sin N by 2. Now substitute the bn in the most general solution. Further simplifying this we get the final content 8h by n² p² sin n by 2. This is my final answer students. So this problem is little different. We have to find f of x when the theoretical content is given to us and up to most general solution the procedure is same. The extra thing you put little effort to find f of x and then find bn. Hope you understand. Thanks for watching. Hope you found this video helpful. Subscribe to our channel and share to your friends. See you in the next video.